{"en":"I stopped to let the car cool off and to study the map. ^ ","ch":"我停下车， 让汽车发动机冷却一下， 同时查看一下地图。  "}
{"en":"I had expected to be near my objective by now,  but everything still seemed alien to me. ^ ","ch":"我本想离目的地已经不远， 但周围一切对我仍很陌生。  "}
{"en":"I was only five when my father had taken me abroad,  and that was eighteen years ago. ^ ","ch":"我5岁那年， 父亲就带我出了国， 那是18年前的事了。  "}
{"en":"When my mother had died after a tragic accident,  he did not quickly recover from the shock and loneliness. ^ ","ch":"当时我母亲在一次事故中惨死， 父亲未能很快从悲痛与孤独中恢复过来。  "}
{"en":"Everything around him was full of her presence,  continually reopening the wound. ^ ","ch":"他身边的一切都有母亲的影子不断地勾起他的伤感。  "}
{"en":"In the new country he became absorbed in making a new life for the two of us,  so that he gradually ceased to grieve. ^ ","ch":"在这个新的国家里， 父亲专心致志地为我们俩开创一种新的生活， 慢慢地不伤心了。  "}
{"en":"He did not marry again and I was brought up without a woman's care; ^ ","ch":"父亲没有再娶， 因此， 我在没有母亲的环境里长大成人。  "}
{"en":"but I lacked for nothing,  for he was both father and mother to me. ^ ","ch":"但我却什么都不缺， 他既当父亲又当母亲。  "}
{"en":"He always meant to go back one day,  but not to stay. ^ ","ch":"他总想将来回国看看， 但却不愿长期住下去，  "}
{"en":"His roots and mine bad become too firmly embedded in the new land. ^ ","ch":"因为他与我一样已经把根深深地扎在了异国的土地上。  "}
{"en":"But he wanted to see the old folk again and to visit my mother's grave. ^ ","ch":"但是， 他想看一看家乡父老乡亲， 为我的母亲扫墓。  "}
{"en":"He became mortally ill a few months before we had planned to go and,  when he knew that he was dying,  he made me promise to go on my own. ^ ","ch":"就在他计划回国的前几个月， 他突然身患绝症。 他知道自己已奄奄一息， 于是他要我答应一定单独回故乡一趟。  "}
{"en":"I hired a car the day after landing and bought a comprehensive book of maps, ^ ","ch":"我下飞机后租了一辆车， 并买了一本详尽的地图册。  "}
{"en":"which I found most helpful on the cross-country journey,  but which I did not think I should need on the last stage. ^ ","ch":"在乡间行车途中， 我觉得它非常有用， 但快到家了， 我倒觉得它没什么用了。  "}
{"en":"It was not that I actually remembered anything at all. ^ ","ch":"这倒并非是我背熟了地图，  "}
{"en":"But my father had described over and over again what we should see at every milestone,  after leaving the nearest town, ^ ","ch":"而是父亲曾详细给我讲了， 在过了离故乡最近的那个小镇后， 在每一个路标处可见到些什么。  "}
{"en":"so that I was positive I should recognize it as familiar territory. ^ ","ch":"因此， 我相信这段路对我来说会是很熟悉的。  "}
{"en":"Well,  I had been wrong,  for I was now lost. ^ ","ch":"唉， 实际我错了， 我现在迷路了。  "}
{"en":"I looked at the map and then at the milometer. ^ ","ch":"我看了看地图， 又查了一下里程表。  "}
{"en":"and at this point,  according to my father,  I should be looking at farms and cottages in a valley, ^ ","ch":"照父亲的说法， 我面前应是一个山谷， 有农场与村舍，  "}
{"en":"with the spire of the church of our village showing in the far distance. ^ ","ch":"还可远远望见老家村子里的教堂的尖顶。  "}
{"en":"I could see no valley,  no farms,  no cottages and no church spire -- only a lake. ^ ","ch":"可现在我却看不出山谷， 看不见农舍， 也看不见教学尖顶， 看见只是一片湖泊。  "}
{"en":"I decided that I must have taken a wrong turning somewhere. ^ ","ch":"我想一定是什么地方拐错了弯儿。  "}
{"en":"So I drove back to the town and began to retrace the route,  taking frequent glances at the map. ^ ","ch":"于是我驾车返回小镇， 重新按路线行驶。  "}
{"en":"The curious thing was that the lake was not marked on the map. ^ ","ch":"奇怪的是那个湖没有在地图上标出。  "}
{"en":"I felt as if I had stumbled into a nightmare country,  as you sometimes do in dreams. ^ ","ch":"我感到自己就像平时作梦那样迷迷糊糊地闯进了恶梦境地。  "}
{"en":"And,  as in a nightmare,  there was nobody in sight to help me. ^ ","ch":"就像在恶梦里一样， 见不到一个人可以帮助我。  "}
{"en":"Fortunately for me,  as I was wondering what to do next,  there appeared on the horizon a man on horseback,  riding in my direction. ^ ","ch":"不过， 我是幸运的， 正当我走投无路之时， 从天边出现一个骑马的人向我骑来。  "}
{"en":"I waited till he came near,  then I asked him the way to our old village. ^ ","ch":"等他走近了， 我问他去老家的路。  "}
{"en":"I thought he must have misunderstood me,  so I repeated its name. ^ ","ch":"我想他一定误解了我的意思， 于是又说一遍村庄的名字。  "}
{"en":"The village no longer existed because it had been submerged,  and all the valley too. ^ ","ch":"村庄已不复存在， 因为已经为水所淹， 山谷也被水淹没了。  "}
{"en":"The lake was not a natural one,  but a man-made reservoir. ^ ","ch":"这不是一个天然湖泊， 是一座人工修建的水库。  "}